
OpenFDM
-------

OpenFDM is at the first a framework suitable for physical modelling.
It features the computation of aerodynamic forces as well as an open
loop multibody system. It includes state of the art friction/tire
models and timestepping methods.

Basic Concept
-------------

Since in physical modelling most effects are computed in its special
coordinate frame, this is one of the core components of OpenFDM. There
is a class called OpenFDM::Frame which represents such a coordinate
frame. A frame can be attached to exactly one parent frame and can
have multiple frames attached to itself. So frames form a tree like
structure where our vehicle will live in. Frames can move and
accelerate with respect to its parent. All information (FIXME: except
the position for now) is stored and can be accessed in the frames own
coordinates.

Frames provide functions to transform several kind of physical
information from one frame to its parent and back to the current
frame. The inertial velocity and acceleration as well as relative
positionsand velocities are accessible through a frame.

Not all frames have 6 degrees of freedom. There is a class
OpenFDM::FreeFrame where the setters for all degrees of freedom are
public. Such a frame can be and is used to provide coriolis effects to
the vehicle. The Earth centered frame is such a free frame which
rotates around its z axis once a day and has the vehicle attached to
it. As said before the frames functions could be used to take care of
the ghost accelerations caused by the earths rotation.

Mass points are for example frames which can be positioned with
respect to its parent frame. They cannot be rotated nor have a
velocity (and thus no relative acceleration).

Joints are some special frames which have some restricted degree of
freedom. They can move or rotate along one or more cartesian axis in
the velocity space. The degrees of freedom could be set, past that the
relative accelerations can be computed using the articulated body
algorythm. More on that later.

Expressions
-----------

OpenFDM contains a set of real valued expressions. They can be used to
dynamically compute forces for the components of OpenFDM.

Scheduled components (DiscreteObject)
-------------------------------------

A vehicle often contains some components, like the flight control
system for example, which are executed at a given rate. Such
components include dynamical systems expressed by transfer functions,
time derivatives of some expression values and control surface
movements limited to a given rate for example. Other components like
engines or tanks whos influence to the vehicles behavour should be
updated once a timestep fit in the category too. Such components are
of the base type OpenFDM::DiscreteObject and could be attached to a
vehicle too.


Spatial algebra
---------------

For the mechanical parts we use the so called spatial vectors. That
are 6-vectors containing the longitudinal and rotational parts
together in one vector. That is is fact very handy and is the base for
the articulated body algorythm.
